h1. How to install Puppet Server on CentOS6

Reference: http://puppetlabs.com/puppet/puppet-open-source/


h3. Installing Puppet Master:

<pre><code>$ sudo yum install puppet-server</code></pre>

Create te file "/etc/puppet/manifests/site.pp" and insert the content below:
<pre><code> import "classes/*"
 
node default {
    include sudo
 }</pre></code>

Create the file "/etc/puppet/manifests/classes/sudo.pp" and insert the content below:
<pre><code>class sudo {
    file { "/etc/sudoers":
        owner => "root",
        group => "root",
        mode  => 440,
    }
}</pre></code>


h3. Starting the Puppet Master:

<pre><code>#Start puppet master and enable startup on boot
$ sudo service puppetmaster start
$ sudo chkconfig puppetmaster on </pre></code>


h3. Installing Puppet Client:

<pre><code>$ sudo yum install puppet</code></pre>

Edit the file "/etc/sysconfig/puppet" to looks like below:
<pre><code># The puppetmaster server
PUPPET_SERVER=[YOUR_PuppetMaster_DNS]
 
# If you wish to specify the port to connect to do so here
PUPPET_PORT=8140
 
# Where to log to. Specify syslog to send log messages to the system log.
PUPPET_LOG=/var/log/puppet/puppet.log
 
# You may specify other parameters to the puppet client here
PUPPET_EXTRA_OPTS=--waitforcert=30</code></pre>


h3. Starting the Puppet Client:

<pre><code>#Start puppet client and enable startup on boot
$ sudo service puppet start
$ sudo chkconfig puppet on</code></pre>


h3. Signing the SSL key from the Puppet Client (in the Puppet Master server):
<pre><code>$ sudo puppetca --list
  puppetclient.localdomain
$ sudo puppetca --sign puppetclient.localdomain</code></pre>


h3. Setting Puppet Master to autosign keys (not recommended):

Insert in the file "/etc/puppet/autosign.conf" the content like the example below:
<pre><code>*.yourinternaldomain.com</code></pre>


h3. Run the puppet agent at the client to apply the roles:

<pre><code>$ sudo puppet agent --server puppetmaster.my.localdomain -t</code></pre>



h2. Author:

Rafael Inocencio <rafael_rci@yahoo.com.br>
https://github.com/rcicm
